# -*- pod -*-
=head1 NAME

youtube-dl - download videos from youtube.com

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  youtube-dl [options] url ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

youtube-dl is a script to download videos from youtube.com.

Once it is installed in your system, you should be able to call it from
the command line. Usage instructions are easy. Use youtube-dl followed
by a video URL or identifier. As an example, consider:

  youtube-dl "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=foobar"

The video will be saved to the file C<foobar.flv> in that example. Many
YouTube.com videos are in Flash Video format and their extension would
be C<flv>. Other videos are encoded in H.264 and these usually have the
extension C<mp4>.  In Linux and other unices, video players using a
recent version of ffmpeg can play them. That includes MPlayer, VLC,
xine, among others.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<youtube-dl> accepts options in the following categories

=over

=item -h, --help

Print help text and exit.

=item -v, --version

Print program version and exit.

=item -U, --update

Update this program to the latest stable version.

=item -i, --ignore-errors

Ignore errors during download and continue processing.

=item -r B<L>, --rate-limit=B<L>

Limit the download speed to the specified maximum B<L> (e.g., 50k or 44.6m).

=item -R B<R>, --retries=B<R>

Number B<R> of retries for a given download (default is 10).

=item --playlist-start=B<N>

The number B<N> of the video in a playlist where we should start downlading
(default is 1).

=item --playlist-end=B<N>

The number B<N> of the video in a playlist where we should stop downloading
(default is -1, which stands for the last video in the playlist).

=item --dump-user-agent

Display how youtube-dl will identify itself (the User-Agent string) to the
remote server.

=item -u B<UN>, --username=B<UN>

Specify the youtube account username B<UN>. Some videos require an
account to be downloaded, mostly because they're flagged as mature
content.

=item -p B<PW>, --password=B<PW>

Like the username, specifies the account password to be B<PW>.

=item -n, --netrc 

Get authentication data from the standard unix .netrc file on the user's
home directory. The machine name is youtube regarding this usage.

=item -f B<FMT>, --format=B<FMT>

Specify the video format (quality) in which to download the video.

For youtube.com, in particular, the meaning of the format codes is given as:

=over

=item WebM video at 480p: 43

=item WebM video at 720p: 45

=item H264 video in MP4 container at 480p: 18

=item H264 video in MP4 container at 720p: 22

=item H264 video in MP4 container at 1080p: 37

=item H264 video in FLV container at 360p: 34

=item H264 video in FLV container at 480p: 35

=item H263 video at 240p: 5

=item 3GP video: 17

=back

Note that not all videos are available in all formats and that other
sites supported by B<youtube-dl> may have different conventions for
their video formats.

By default, youtube-dl will download the best available format; if you want
to download the worst format to save bandwidth and time, use C<-f> I<worst>.

=item --all-formats

Downloads all formats for which a video may be available.

=item --max-quality=B<FMT>

Limit the maximum quality of the videos to downloads to B<FMT>.

=item -q, --quiet

Activates quiet mode, avoiding many messages being written to the
terminal.

=item -s, --simulate

Simulate the operation, but do not download the video. Useful for
testing.

=item -g, --get-url

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but show the URL that would be
used to download the video. Can be used with other download tools like
wget or aria2c.

=item -e, --get-title

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but show the title of the video
that would be downloaded.

=item --get-thumbnail

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but print the URL of of the video's
thumbnail.

=item --get-description

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but print the description of the
video.

=item --get-filename

Simulate the operation, like quiet mode, but print the output filename.

=item --no-progress

Do not print the progress bar during downloads.

=item --console-title

If possible, set the title of the console window with the progress of the
download.

=item -t, --title

Use the title of the video in the file name used to download the video.

=item -l, --literal

Use the literal title of the video in file name used to download the
video. Can contain "weird" characters that are not filtered like with
the -t option.

=item -A, --auto-number

When downloading multiple videos from a playlist, automatically number them,
in sequence, starting from 00000.

=item -o B<TPL>, --output=B<TPL>

Specify a template B<TPL> for the names of the files to be created when
they are downloaded. The default filename is video_id.flv. But you can
also use the video title in the filename with the C<-t> or C<--title>
option, or preserve the literal title in the filename with the C<-l> or
C<--literal> option.

=item -a B<F>, --batch-file=B<F>

Specify the name of a file containing URLs of videos to download from
youtube in batch mode. The file must contain one URL per line.

=item -w, --no-overwrites

Do no overwrite already existing files.

=item -c, --continue

Resume partially downloaded files.

=item --cookies=B<F>

Store the received cookies to file B<F> (the "cookie jar").

=item --no-part

Do not append the I<.part> suffix do files that have not yet been completed.

=item --no-mtime

Do not use the I<Last-modified> header to set the file modification time.

=item --extract-audio

Create an audio-only file extracted from the video downloaded. Requires that
ffmpeg and ffprobe be installed.

=item --audio-format=B<FORMAT>

Set the audio format to be used for the extraction. Possible values are
I<best>, I<aac>, I<mp3>, with I<best> being the default.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT TEMPLATE

The -o option allows users to indicate a template for the output file
names. The basic usage is not to set any template arguments when
downloading a single file, like in youtube-dl -o funny_video.flv
"http://some/video". However, it may contain special sequences that will
be replaced when downloading each video.

The special sequences have the format C<%(NAME)s>. To clarify, that's a
percent symbol followed by a name in parenthesis, followed by a
lowercase S. Allowed names are:

=over

=item id

The sequence will be replaced by the video identifier.

=item url

The sequence will be replaced by the video URL.

=item uploader

The sequence will be replaced by the nickname of the person who uploaded
the video.

=item title

The sequence will be replaced by the literal video title.

=item stitle

The sequence will be replaced by a simplified video title, restricted to
alphanumeric characters and dashes.

=item ext

The sequence will be replaced by the appropriate extension (like C<flv>
or C<mp4>).

=item epoch

The sequence will be replaced by the Unix epoch when creating the file.

=back

As you may have guessed, the default template is C<%(id)s.%(ext)s>. When
some command line options are used, it's replaced by other templates
like C<%(title)s-%(id)s.%(ext)s>. You can specify your own.

=head1 AUTHOR

youtube-dl was written by Ricardo Garcia Gonzalez and many contributors
from all around the internet.  This manpage was written by Rogério Brito
<rbrito@ime.usp.br>.

=cut
